Sidd Gupta
Full Stack Developer
http://www.linkedin.com/in/sid1591
sid1591@gmail.com (801) 513-9280 Erie, Colorado
Engineering Leader & Full Stack Developer with 10+ years of experience delivering high-quality, user-focused software. Proven track record of leading cross-functional teams, architecting scalable systems, and driving impactful product enhancements from concept to launch. Skilled at uniting engineering, product, and design to build cohesive, innovative solutions.
Skills
Frontend: TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, SASS, SCSS, React, Redux Toolkit, Angular, Material UI, i18next, Storybook, Webpack, Vite, Yarn, npm, Figma
Backend: Python, C#, C++, C, PHP, SQL, GraphQL, JSON, XML, Django, Node.js, Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL)
Cloud & CI/CD: AWS, Microsoft Azure, GCP, Docker, Kubernetes, GitLab CI/CD, GitHub Actions, TeamCity
Testing: Jest, React Testing Library
Developer Tools & Workflow: VS Code, Visual Studio, Git, Jira, ConfigCat
Work Experience
Xcellent Technology Solutions
Modernized client facing HydroAdd3D SPA and updated backend infrastructure for the same.
Software Engineer - HydroAdd3D	Nov 2024 - Present
Upgraded core app framework to meet modern security and usability standards.
Collaborated on app usability with design, and implemented them using React, GraphQL and Material UI.
Enhanced performance by 15% via improvements to the Django backend.
Migrated from Create-React-App to Vite, and updated the build process in GitLab CI/CD.
MakeMusic, Inc
Adapted to major technology pivots while focusing on improving software architecture and processes, enabling the team’s ability to deliver better products.
Software Engineer - Finale, Compose, and Sight Reading Studio	Apr 2021- Aug 2024
Led cross-functional teams as Technical Lead, driving the implementation of key product enhancements and improving user interface components.
Upgraded Compose and Sight Reading Studio from Ember.js to React with Redux Toolkit in TypeScript.
Evaluated the scope, risk, and feasibility of new features in collaboration with the Product Manager to ensure successful implementation that benefited 5,000+ active monthly users.
Collaborated with the Product Designer to develop and integrate effective, accessible, and user-friendly UI solutions, resulting in a 10% increase in user engagement.
Architected app-wide systems, including a localization framework, a user notification system, and a robust error handling solution for critical failures.
Implemented reusable components to an organization-wide design system.
Defined and revised REST APIs for integrating with MusicArchitect, our in-house music notation engine, reducing integration time by 20%, benefiting both internal and external partners.
Refined a 30+ year-old C++ codebase for Finale, reducing the amount of legacy code by 10%, and improving performance by 18%.
Owned and documented the process for product updates which was managed via AWS, coordinating with 3rd party vendors to ensure timely global releases.
Energy & Geoscience Institute
Sole developer responsible for processing massive amounts of raw data and delivered digestible results that enabled institute-critical research by petroleum geologists.
Lead Software Developer - iCORDS and EGIConnect	Nov 2019 - Oct 2020
Improved internal infrastructure to better survive catastrophic failures by replacing a monolithic on-premises server with a Docker + Kubernetes based solution to enhance reliability.
Assessed the OSDU platform, a data sharing platform built specifically for the energy sector, and adapted iCORDS functionality into it.
Migrated critical SQL functions to a JSON file-based system on AWS, improving data retrieval times by 30% for end-users.
Software Developer - iCORDS	May 2016 - Nov 2019
Managed and processed data from 30,000+ offshore wells, with 2,500+ data types, for an international research community of over 200 users via SQL.
Optimized Microsoft Azure SQL Database, increasing query performance by 15%.
Utilized end user feedback to identify and implement features and fixes, in C# and JavaScript/AngularJS.
Tiered World Studios
Built SPAs to aid low-income Hispanic families make educated lifestyle choices.
Lead Engineer - Untitled Recipe Game and Padre a Padre	Sep 2015 - May 2016
Created app framework using C# in the Unity engine for an unreleased mobile AR recipe game.
Developed and iterated on SPA infrastructure for Padre a Padre.
Collaborated on design challenges and risk mitigation strategies with interdisciplinary teams.
Retro Yeti Games
Using new, cutting edge game engine tech, developed a game from prototype to full release on Steam.
Lead Engineer - 404Sight	May 2014 - May 2015
Optimized final product with a total reduced game size of 90% and large increase in performance within Unreal Engine 4 by iterating on the basic building blocks used throughout.
Integrated Valve Steamworks SDK with Unreal Engine 4.
Led a team of engineers through the use of consistent code workflows and reviews. 
Gameplay Engineer - 404Sight	Jan 2014 - May 2014
Established pipeline/workflow for the team in Unreal Engine 4, and engaged with the community during the first year of the engine's availability.
Collaborated with creative leads to implement and iterate core gameplay features.
Implemented data analytics system to allow design to analyze issues or improvements to user experience.
Personal Projects
AI Behaviors	Aug 2014 - Dec 2014
Experimented with multiple AI algorithms in Unity:
Reynold’s steering behaviors, for autonomous movement.
A minimax algorithm using AI, for a game of Tic-tac-toe.
Bot driven capture the flag that has AI driven by behavior trees and finite state machines.
A genetic algorithm to enable bots to get better at navigating to and collecting points.
Education
University of Utah	Aug 2013 - May 2015
Master of Science in Computing - Entertainment Arts and Engineering
